# New Features in v3.4

This is a summary version that summarizes the improvements and added features from v3.4.0 to v3.4.2

## Colors

v3.4.0 added the following new colors:

- `slate`
- `zink`
- `neutral`
- `stone`

## Utilities

### Box Shadow Color Opacity

The box shadow color opacity can now be set like this:

- `shadow-red-500/50`
- `shadow-yellow-700/80`
- ...

See [here](/utilities/effects/box-shadow#box-shadow-color) for details.

### New aspect-ratio Classes

<!-- Utilities for controlling the aspect ratio of an element, see [here](/utilities/layout/aspect-ratio) for details. -->
Utilities for controlling the aspect ratio of an element, see [here](/plugins/official/aspect-ratio) for details.

- `aspect-auto`
- `aspect-square`
- `aspect-video`

### New flex-basis Classes

Utilities for controlling the initial size of flex items, see [here](/utlities/layout/flexbox#flex-basis) for details.

- `basis-auto`
- `basis-full`
- `basis-1`
- `basis-12`
- `basis-1/2`
- `basis-11/12`
- ...

### New columns, break-after, break-before and break-inside Classes

Utilities for controlling the number of columns within an element, see [here](/utilities/layout/columns) for details.

- `columns-1`
- `columns-12`
- `break-after-auto`
- `break-before-all`
- `break-inside-avoid`
- ...

### New touch-action and scroll-behavior Classes

#### Touch Action

Utilities for controlling how an element can be scrolled and zoomed on touchscreens, see 
[here](/utilities/interactivity/touch-action) for details.

- `touch-auto`
- `touch-none`
- ...

#### Scroll Behavior

Utilities for controlling the scroll behavior of an element, see [here](/utilities/interactivity/scroll-behavior) for 
details.

- `scroll-auto`
- `scroll-smooth`

### New will-change Classes

Utilities for optimizing upcoming animations of elements that are expected to change, see 
[here](utilities/interactivity/will-change) for details.

- `will-change-auto`
- `will-change-scroll`
- `will-change-contents`
- `will-change-transform`

### New accent-color Classes

Utilities for controlling the accented color of a form control, see [here](/utilities/interactivity/accent-color) for
details.

- `accent-red-500`
- `accent-yellow-800/50`
- ...

## Variants

### New portrait: and landscape: Variants

These variants enable utilities when the device is in a specific orientation, see 
[here](/utilities/general/variants#orientation-variants) for details.

### New file: Variant

Targets the file-selector-button pseudo-element, see [here](/utilities/general/variants#pseudo-elements) for details.

### New marker: Variant

Targets the marker pseudo-element. Can be used inheritable, see [here](/utilities/general/variants#pseudo-elements) for 
details.